Immersionday (#109)
aws-samples/aws-hpc-tutorials: content/03-hpc-aws-parallelcluster-workshop/03-initialize-pc.md

+++

> title = "b. Set up ParallelCluster base requirements"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title = "b. Set up ParallelCluster"
```

Author: There is an "Install ParallelCluster" page before this. Do you have any other suggestion for the title? set up paralell cluster would mean something like install?

Reviewer: Set up AWS ParallelCluster foundations

Author: Like this. Will change it! Thanks

date = 2019-09-18T10:46:30-04:00
weight = 40
tags = ["tutorial", "initialize", "ParallelCluster"]
+++

> Typically, to configure AWS ParallelCluster, you use the interactive command [**pcluster configure**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/parallelcluster/latest/ug/getting-started-configuring-parallelcluster.html) and then provide the requested information, such as the AWS Region, Scheduler, and EC2 Instance Type. However, for this workshop you can take a shortcut by creating a custom config file to include HPC specific options. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, to configure AWS ParallelCluster, you use the interactive command [**pcluster configure**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/parallelcluster/latest/ug/getting-started-configuring-parallelcluster.html) to provide the information, such as the AWS Region, Scheduler, and EC2 Instance Type.
For this workshop, you will create a custom configuration file to include the HPC specific options for this lab. 
```

> In this section we are going to set up base requirements to build the configuration file in the next section 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you will create an AWS ParallelCluster configuration file that specifies the AWS Region, network information, SSH key pair, OS and scheduler.
```

{{% notice info %}}Don't skip these steps, it is important to follow each step sequentially, copy paste and run these commands
{{% /notice %}}

> Retrive network information and set environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieve network information and set environment variables
```

1. Set AWS Region

```bash

AWS_REGION=$(curl --silent http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/placement/region)

```

> 2. Set VPC ID to default VPC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Set VPC ID by retrieving the ID of the default VPC
```

```bash

VPC_ID=`aws ec2 describe-vpcs --output text \
        --query 'Vpcs[*].VpcId' \
        --filters Name=isDefault,Values=true \
        --region ${AWS_REGION}`

```

> 3. Set instance types required ( master , compute ) that will be used in the parallel cluster config in the next section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Set Amazon EC2 instance types that be will be used to define the head and compute node of AWS in the next section
```

```bash

INSTANCES=c5.xlarge,c5.large

```

> 4. Find the AZ where the required instances are available 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Find the Availability Zone where the EC2 instances are available 
```

```bash

AZ_W_INSTANCES=`aws ec2 describe-instance-type-offerings --location-type "availability-zone" \
    --filters Name=instance-type,Values=${INSTANCES} \
    --query InstanceTypeOfferings[].Location \
    --region ${AWS_REGION} | jq -r ".[]" | sort`

```

> 5. Set subnet ID based on the AZ to subnet mapping in your account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Set subnet ID based on the Availability Zone in which the EC2 instances are available
```

```bash

INSTANCE_TYPE_COUNT=`echo ${INSTANCES} | awk -F "," '{print NF-1}'`

if [ ${INSTANCE_TYPE_COUNT} -gt 0 ]; then
    AZ_W_INSTANCES=`echo ${AZ_W_INSTANCES} | tr ' ' '\n' | uniq -d`
fi
AZ_W_INSTANCES=`echo ${AZ_W_INSTANCES} | tr ' ' ',' | sed 's%,$%%g'`

if [[ -z $AZ_W_INSTANCES ]]; then
    echo "[ERROR] failed to retrieve availability zone"

>     exit 1

Reviewer: Replace `exit` by `return` to avoid exiting the cloud9 session.
```suggestion
    return 1
```

fi

AZ_COUNT=`echo $AZ_W_INSTANCES | tr -s ',' ' ' | wc -w`
SUBNET_ID=`aws ec2 describe-subnets --query "Subnets[*].SubnetId" \
    --filters Name=vpc-id,Values=${VPC_ID} \
    Name=availability-zone,Values=${AZ_W_INSTANCES} \
    --region ${AWS_REGION} \
    | jq -r .[$(python3 -S -c "import random; print(random.randrange(${AZ_COUNT}))")]`

if [[ ! -z $SUBNET_ID ]]; then
    echo "[INFO] SUBNET_ID = ${SUBNET_ID}"
else
    echo "[ERROR] failed to retrieve SUBNET ID"

>     exit 1

Reviewer: Replace `exit` by `return` to avoid exiting the cloud9 session.
```suggestion
    return 1
```

fi

```

The following steps set up SSH Access Key required to access the cluster in later sections

6. Create SSH Access Key "lab-3-key" if it does not exsist already 

```bash

> SSH_KEY_NAME="lab-3-key.pem" 

Reviewer: Shouldn't the same SSH Key name for all labs ?

[ ! -d ~/.ssh ] && mkdir -p ~/.ssh && chmod 700 ~/.ssh

SSH_KEY_EXIST=`aws ec2 describe-key-pairs --query KeyPairs[*] --filters Name=key-name,Values=${SSH_KEY_NAME} --region ${AWS_REGION} | jq "select(length > 0)"`

if [[ -z ${SSH_KEY_EXIST} ]]; then
    aws ec2 create-key-pair --key-name ${SSH_KEY_NAME} \
        --query KeyMaterial \
        --region ${AWS_REGION} \
        --output text > ~/.ssh/${SSH_KEY_NAME}

>     chmod 600 ~/.ssh/${SSH_KEY_NAME}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    chmod 400 ~/.ssh/${SSH_KEY_NAME}
```

else
    echo "[WARNING] SSH_KEY_NAME ${SSH_KEY_NAME} already exist"
fi

echo "[INFO] SSH_KEY_NAME = ${SSH_KEY_NAME}"

```

> 7. Store the SSH key  in AWS Secrets Manager as a failsafe in the event that the Key is lost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Store the SSH key in AWS Secrets Manager as a failsafe in the event that the private SSH key is lost
```

```bash

b64key=$(base64 ~/.ssh/${SSH_KEY_NAME})
aws secretsmanager create-secret --name $SSH_KEY_NAME \
                                 --description "Private key file" \
                                  --secret-string "$b64key"

```

8. (This step is optional and only in case you lose your SSH key), with this command you will be able to retrive it from Secrets Manager

```bash

> aws secretsmanager get-secret-value --secret-id $SSH_KEY_NAME \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aws secretsmanager get-secret-value --secret-id ${SSH_KEY_NAME}E \
```

                                    --query 'SecretString' \

>                                     --output text | base64 --decode > $SSH_KEY_NAME

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                    --output text | base64 --decode > ~/.ssh/$SSH_KEY_NAME
```

+++
title = "b. Set up AWS ParallelCluster foundation"
date = 2019-09-18T10:46:30-04:00
weight = 40
tags = ["tutorial", "initialize", "ParallelCluster"]
+++

Typically, to configure AWS ParallelCluster, you use the interactive command [**pcluster configure**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/parallelcluster/latest/ug/getting-started-configuring-parallelcluster.html) to provide the information, such as the AWS Region, Scheduler, and EC2 Instance Type.

> For this workshop, you will create a custom configuration file to include the HPC specific options for this lab. 

Reviewer: Looks duplicative with line 12

Author: corrected it

In this section, you will create an AWS ParallelCluster configuration file that specifies the AWS Region, network information, SSH key pair, OS and scheduler.

{{% notice info %}}Don't skip these steps, it is important to follow each step sequentially, copy paste and run these commands
{{% /notice %}}

> Retrieve network information and set environment variables. In these steps you will also be writing these enviroment variables into a file in your working directory which can be sourced and set again in case you logout of the session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieve network information and set environment variables. In these steps you will also be writing these environment variables into a file in your working directory which can be sourced and set again in case you logout of the session.
```

    --query InstanceTypeOfferings[].Location \
    --region ${AWS_REGION} | jq -r ".[]" | sort`

```

5. Set subnet ID based on the Availability Zone in which the EC2 instances are available

```bash

INSTANCE_TYPE_COUNT=`echo ${INSTANCES} | awk -F "," '{print NF-1}'`

if [ ${INSTANCE_TYPE_COUNT} -gt 0 ]; then
    AZ_W_INSTANCES=`echo ${AZ_W_INSTANCES} | tr ' ' '\n' | uniq -d`
fi
AZ_W_INSTANCES=`echo ${AZ_W_INSTANCES} | tr ' ' ',' | sed 's%,$%%g'`

if [[ -z $AZ_W_INSTANCES ]]; then
    echo "[ERROR] failed to retrieve availability zone"
    return 1
fi

AZ_COUNT=`echo $AZ_W_INSTANCES | tr -s ',' ' ' | wc -w`
SUBNET_ID=`aws ec2 describe-subnets --query "Subnets[*].SubnetId" \
    --filters Name=vpc-id,Values=${VPC_ID} \
    Name=availability-zone,Values=${AZ_W_INSTANCES} \
    --region ${AWS_REGION} \
    | jq -r .[$(python3 -S -c "import random; print(random.randrange(${AZ_COUNT}))")]`

if [[ ! -z $SUBNET_ID ]]; then
    echo "[INFO] SUBNET_ID = ${SUBNET_ID}"
    echo "export SUBNET_ID=$SUBNET_ID" >> env_vars
else
    echo "[ERROR] failed to retrieve SUBNET ID"
    return 1
fi

```

The following steps set up SSH Access Key required to access the cluster in later sections

> 6. Create SSH Access Key "lab-3-key" if it does not exsist already 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Create SSH Access Key "lab-key" if it does not exsist already 
```

```bash

> SSH_KEY_NAME="lab-key.pem" 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSH_KEY_NAME="hpc-workshop-key.pem" 
```
